General: "DATA: Feat Pool off" will appear on some entries. These are usually creatures that have multiples of 4 hit dice. In modern monsters gain their feats at a rate of 1 per 4 HD after the first, meaning at 5th, 9th, etc. I do have a tracker for that. - Frank

Ape: valid

Bat: valid (PCGen shows "Gear needs to be equipped" because it has no natural attacks)

Bear: Climb skill is way too high. Could be that the Bear was designed with a Climb movement that would grant a +8 bonus, which was later dropped (or is missing in the stats).

Bugbear: valid (has 3 skill points left)

Cat: Jump skill is way too high. Maybe Jump should get bonus from DEX instead of STR as Climb does?

Crocodile (any): valid

Deinonychus: used 26 skill points - allowed 10-15 skill points, thats 11 points too many. Could be that SIZE L wasn't figured into Hide skill (4 points)

Dog (any): valid

Ferret: valid

Festergog (Vomit Fiend): valid

Rotlord (Carrion Fiend): Bite attack damage Bonus is STR*1.5, where the bite is a secondary attack, but if that really is meant by design, then this is a DATA: issue

Skinhusker (Bladefiend): Armband attack is 1 too high. Could be that SIZE L was not calculated in.

Flesh Golem (any): valid

Gargoyle: valid

Gnoll: valid

Goblin: Move Silently skill should be +4 but is already at +5 without any skillranks. Could be that the species bonus was not calculated in. Alertness is a bonus feat, so the Goblin doesn't have the 1 feat it is allowed. This should probably be Personal Firearms Proficiency, as the default entry makes use of the Colt Python.

Hawk: valid. (has 2-7 skill points left. Could be that the WIS bonus is not calculated rightly into Spot and Listen, as these are the only skills the hawk has.)

Herd Animal: valid

Horse: valid

Invisible Stalker: valid. (has 2 skill points left)

Advanced Invisible Stalker: valid. (has 1 skill point left)

Kobold: Alertness is a bonus feat, so the Kobold doesn't have the 1 feat it is allowed. This should probably be Personal Firearms Proficiency, as the default entry makes use of the Pathfinder revolver.

Medusa: valid

Minotaur: valid

Monkey: used 25 skill points - allowed 10-15 skill points. Should Balance get a +8 species bonus and Climb use DEX instead of STR as cats do?

Monstrous Flytrap: Bite attack TOHIT is 16, should be 15 (3/4 of 11 hit dice is 8.25, STR bonus +9, SIZE penalty -2 = 15.25, rounded down to 15)

Advanced Monstrous Flytrap: valid

Monstrous Spider (any): valid. (PROBLEM:PCGen shows template choose selection window twice)

Mummy: valid

Ogre: valid. (has 3 skill points left) DATA:Feat Pool off

Owl: valid

Puppeteer: valid. (has 2 skill points left)

Rat: valid

Raven: valid (has 2 skill points left)

Robot (Diminutive, Tiny): valid. (PROBLEMS:PCGen shows "Gear needs to be equipped" because it has no natural attacks, PCGen shows template choose selection window twice)

Shark: valid

Constrictor Snake: valid

Tiny Viper: valid

Terrestrial Effluvium: Slam attack TOHIT is +37 should be +33 (3/4 of 33 HD is a BAB of +24, STR +17, SIZE -8 =33), Slam attack damge bonus is +19. STR 44 should be +17.

Tiger: valid

Toad: valid. (has 1 skill point left, PCGen shows "Gear needs to be equipped" because it has no natural attacks)

Tooth Fairy: valid

Troglodyte: valid

Troll: valid (has 4 skill points left)

Wolf: Bite attack TOHIT is +3 should be +2 (3/4 of 2 HD is a BAB of +1, STR +1 =2)

Wyrm (Hatchling): valid. DATA:Feat Pool off

Wyrm (Adult): valid. (has 1 skill point left). DATA:Feat Pool off
